Nervos Blockchain
Nervos区块链

What is the Nervos Blockchain?
什么是Nervos区块链？

The Nervos blockchain, also known as the Common Knowledge Base, is the bottom-most layer in the Nervos ecosystem. It serves as a foundation to build on and provides trust to all layers built on top. It is designed to maximize decentralization while remaining minimal, flexible, and secure. Its main purpose is the reliable preservation of any data and assets stored within it.
Nervos区块链，也称为共同知识库，是Nervos生态系统的最底层。它是基础的基础，并为基础之上的所有层提供了信任。它旨在最大程度地分散权力，同时保持最小，灵活和安全。其主要目的是可靠地保存其中存储的任何数据和资产。

Multi-Layer Architecture
多层架构

Trade-offs must be made when designing any decentralized system. An example of a common trade-off is between scalability, security, and decentralization. Achieving high levels of all three on a single layer is difficult to impossible, but different layers can each address different concerns.
设计任何去中心化系统时都必须权衡取舍。常见折衷的一个例子是可扩展性、安全性和去中心化。在单个层上实现这三个级别的高水准是很难甚至不可能的，但是不同的层可以分别解决不同的问题。

An example of how layering helps improve this:
分层如何帮助改善这一点的一个示例：

Layer 1 focuses on security and decentralization, providing trust to higher layers.
第1层专注于安全性和去中心化，为高层提供信任。
Layer 2 focuses on scalability, providing nearly instantaneous transactions for millions of users.
第2层专注于可扩展性，为数百万个用户提供近乎即时的交易。

The two layers function together to achieve higher levels of decentralization, security, and scalability.
这两个层共同发挥作用，以实现更高级别的分散，安全性和可伸缩性。

The Nervos blockchain represents layer 1 of the multi-layer architecture, and its core design principles prioritize security and decentralization.
Nervos区块链代表多层体系结构的第1层，其核心设计原则优先考虑安全性和去中心化。

What is a CKByte?
什么是CKByte？

The native token of Nervos is known as the CKByte, or CKB for short. One CKByte token entitles the holder to one byte of data storage on Nervos. The CKByte is also used to pay any fees associated with transactions and computation.
Nervos的原生代币被称为CKByte，简称CKB。一个CKByte代币使持有者有权在Nervos上存储一个字节的数据。CKByte还用于支付与交易和计算相关的任何费用。

If you need to store 100 bytes of data in Nervos, you must own 100 CKBytes. While your data is occupying space on Nervos, your CKBytes will remain locked. If your data is no longer needed and you remove it from Nervos, then the 100 CKBytes can be used for other purposes.
如果需要在Nervos中存储100字节的数据，则必须拥有100 CKBytes。当您的数据占用Nervos上的空间时，您的CKBytes将保持锁定状态。如果不再需要您的数据并将其从Nervos中删除，则100 CKBytes可用于其他目的。

CKBytes can also be deposited in the Nervos DAO where they gain interest in a process similar to staking.
CKBytes也可以存放在Nervos DAO中，在那里他们对类似于下注的过程产生了兴趣。

We will cover more about the CKByte in the Cell Model and Economics sections.
在单元模型和经济学部分，我们将详细介绍CKByte 

Programming on Nervos
在Nervos上编程

Nervos offers smart contract programmability using a growing number of well-known general-purpose programming languages, such as Javascript, Rust, and C.
Nervos使用越来越多的知名通用编程语言（例如Javascript，Rust和C）提供智能合约可编程性。

All programs on Nervos can store data and state on-chain. This makes the creation of complex applications and customized tokens a simple and straightforward process.
Nervos上的所有程序都可以存储数据并在链上进行状态说明。这使得创建复杂的应用程序和自定义代币成为一个简单而直接的过程。

All code is executed in CKB-VM, a high-performance RISC-V virtual machine that provides a safe, consistent, and flexible environment for developers to utilize. Multiple instances of CKB-VM can execute different smart contracts at the same time, enabling substantial scaling improvements through massive parallelization.
所有代码都在高性能RISC-V虚拟机CKB-VM中执行，可为开发人员提供安全、一致和灵活的环境。CKB-VM的多个实例可以同时执行不同的智能合约，从而通过大规模并行化实现了显着的扩展性改进。

We will cover more about programming on Nervos in the Cell Model and CKB-VM sections.
我们将在“单元模型”和“ CKB-VM”部分中介绍有关Nervos编程的更多信息。

Consensus
共识

Nervos uses a Proof of Work (PoW) based consensus algorithm known as NC-MAX. PoW has repeatedly been proven to be the best in class solution for incentivized security.
Nervos使用基于工作量证明（PoW）的共识算法，即NC-MAX。PoW已被反复证明是用于激励安全性的同类最佳解决方案。

Building on Bitcoin’s Nakamoto Consensus, NC-MAX dramatically increases transactions per second and decreases confirmation time without compromising on security or decentralization.
在比特币的中本聪共识的基础上，NC-MAX极大地提高了每秒交易量，并减少了确认时间，而不会影响安全性或去中心化。

Nervos currently provides a 10x throughput increase compared to Ethereum and is expected to grow exponentially as layer 2 solutions are developed.
与以太坊相比，Nervos当前提供了10倍的吞吐量增长，并有望随着第二层解决方案的开发而呈指数增长。

We will cover more about the design of Nervos’ consensus implementation in the Consensus section.
我们将在共识部分中介绍有关Nervos共识实现的设计的更多信息。
